the idea that there's somebody who's a
narcissist and we're not is ridiculous
like all of us have some way in which we
are narcissistic and it might just be
there's something deep within me that
wants to be felt and if it's cycling
like an addiction it's probably a sign
that I'm not actually getting it every
thought that you have about not being
able to feel an emotion all the way
through is an emotion that you get to
feel prior to things getting wired
together and to patterns and ways that
we learn to get love underneath all of
it is what view points to the Natural
State we've had a lot of questions
coming in we have a survey up on Spotify
if you're listening to this on Spotify
you might see when you finish an episode
that there's a way to ask us a question
or suggest another topic and others have
been asking via Twitter X and other
formats so we've got a whole bunch of
questions and I'd love to see how many
of those we could make it through and
make this a Q&A episode how's that sound
cool I love it that makes it easy yeah
awesome maybe we'll only get through one
let's find out yeah great yeah any one
of these questions could be a full
episode most likely all right well let's
start with dimma dimma asks uh about
ambition where does ambition come
from and how do you deal with the
pressure it
creates this a great so where does
ambition come from
I I don't know I mean I know that we're
all born with some level of ambition I
suspect that neurologically speaking
that that level of
ambition is different based on some
neurochemical genetic brain construct
that is you know unique in all of
us um but I I've never met anybody with
zero ambition right they would just be
what just like not even eat and then die
so I think we're born with it is the
short answer to where where does
ambition come from I I don't
know uh like it almost doesn't make
sense in my brain when somebody asked
the second part of that question which
is like why is it pre why is why does it
create pressure is that that was that
how it was it was how do you deal with
the pressure it creates how you deal
with the pressure it creates so I would
say that ambition doesn't create
pressure I mean yeah needing to be a
value like you know thinking that you're
who you are is tied to your success and
your ambition that would all create a
lot of pressure but just the raw
ambition it's
like I want to get up and walk out of
bed that's what ambition is and then it
you know can go as I want to create this
huge company or I want to you know uh
let the whole world know that they're
loved there's a thousand things that
that ambition can express in and and
it's just the impetus to move and do
something it feels like the pressure of
ambition comes when you start attaching
stories to it such as you know I'm no
good if I don't my identity requires
that I um you know if I don't the whole
world is going to collapse you know the
the if I don't live to my ambition
around climate then you know the
atmosphere will burn and all the
children will die like that all that
stuff I think is what creates the
pressure the ambition itself is almost
the relief of the pressure and and I I'm
reminded of something I heard recently
and I can't remember exactly where I
heard it but it was a definition of
stress and the definition was beautiful
in the fact that it
wasn't overwhelm and stress based on
everything you have to do is it was
based on not doing it and I find that to
be very much the case that if I am not
acting on the thing that I that I want
to be acting on that there's a lot of
stress that sh up in my system and I
noticed that with other people as well
that often times the stress is the
thinking about doing it and it's
relieved by the doing of it itself and
so to me that would be the ambition is
that the impetus to move so I don't see
that as the stress I think it's the
stories that we tell ourselves or the
ways that we convince ourselves that
we're stuck that causes the stress yeah
it seems that there's a a distinction
between different kinds of of ambition
there's the there's the ambition that's
just the natural thing that's happening
that you don't need to manage and then
there's ambition that is a
trying and there's there's the kind of
ambition that's like overriding in
Natural Evolution or impulse in order to
and that's where the stories come in
like I have to be of value I have to be
a certain way I need to be successful so
I'm going to strive rather than unfold
it seems like that's a distinction here
yeah between the ambition that's stress
and the ambition that's not yeah it's
funny um you know somebody that we hired
recently has been working and and just
hasn't been happy hasn't been doing the
stuff that's needed to be done and I was
talking to her the other day and I said
and it became clear that it was really
important that she she she wanted to do
things right and I said oh God please
don't like just like like don't ask
yourself you have a task don't ask
yourself how do I do this right please
ask yourself how do I enjoy doing the
task and then do the task the way that
you enjoy doing the task and for
whatever reason it clicked
and and and boom like two days
later EXA everything that I would want
to work with was there just because of
that flip of the switch the ambition was
wanting to like be a part of the team
and contribute and and like and and and
and be and live this purpose that she
gets to live by working with
us but the the thing that was getting in
the way was the trying to get something
perfect and as soon as it went to like
oh how do I enjoy this it was like like
the
productivity quadrupled it was just
amazing to see what
happened so that's another I say that's
another thing is when you if your
ambition is getting in your way move to
that metric and say okay how do I get
things done in a way that I enjoy them
and see how much more productive you
become how much more your ambition feels
like it's getting
fulfilled yeah yeah and then then that
point it doesn't matter where it comes
from it matters there's there's a
exactly there's a way you'll notice
where it comes from and it
won't the question will fall away yeah
absolutely yeah thank you
um so Beth asks uh using emotion at
people what does that look like for
emotions like sadness anxiety Etc is
love an emotion that gets used at people
in parenthesis that's a great one it's a
great question love bombing yeah yeah
yeah um yeah absolutely uh all all of
the above
so I think you can constantly watch
people who want other people to hold
their fear and they'll come into a
conversation and oh I'm really really
worried about it and they're hoping that
somebody else will also be really
worried about it so that they're not
alone in the worry and it's so it's
literally using your emotion to manage
somebody else and so that's like an
example of it you see this in offices
all the time somebody's really anxious
and they like need to everybody else to
be anxious or they don't feel safe um so
that's one I think getting sad at people
I mean anybody who's guilt tripped
anybody else that like sad sad at
somebody is like a prime Guilt Trip like
like movement H I'm G to be sad so that
you manage or change the way you are
whether it's subconscious or conscious
you
know oftentimes like when someone gets
angry at somebody they don't know that
they're manipulating their emotional
Behavior they just feel out of control I
think sometimes that's the case with
sadness sometimes that's the case often
with the fear yeah but when you're when
if you look in your like oh if that
person doesn't change their behavior at
all am I still okay then and if the
answer is no then you know you're in
that place of doing it at somebody so
absolutely all of them can be done love
at
somebody yes I mean I If It's Love at
somebody it's not love so there's that
but there's this thing that looks like
love at somebody that is definitely like
I'm going to love you up so that you
love me back or I'm going to love you up
so that you know I can feel feel like a
sense of connection that you don't
particularly want to give me or you know
there's all that things that like I'm
going to endear myself with you I'm GNA
all that stuff that you can use love for
but then it's not really love but it
looks like love and it and it you know
might feel like love a little bit but
not It Isn't Love yeah and that that
illuminates something interesting here
because if I if I think to apply that
across what makes it special about love
that if you're doing it at somebody it's
not love maybe it's actually the case
for all emotions if you're sad at
somebody it's not really sadness that
you're feeling you're there you're
projecting the sadness you're using the
sadness to
manipulate which is a way of avoiding
feeling it so it seems like that might
be true for any of these emotions where
if you are using them to manipulate you
are essentially self- manipulating your
experience of the emotion which is one
reason why it might just continue
showing up in your life in the same way
without really moving and transforming
that's a beautiful point right someone's
guilty you with sadness they're not
actually feeling their sadness so they
want you to feel it for them yeah they
exactly that's right yeah yeah that's an
interesting right they want you to feel
the fear for them you want yeah but it
also means that they're not fully
feeling it because if they were fully
feeling it they wouldn't be trying to
get it out of their system onto
you so yeah that's a that's a that's a
great reframe of it so yeah I love
that yeah thank you Beth
yeah uh we have a question from a just
the letter a hello a how do how do you
apply the view principles when
interacting with a narcissistic parent o
wow that's a question yeah
um yeah okay so let's let's defining
terms I think is really important on
this one there's a narcissist and that's
like a personality
disorder um sounds like that's what
they're talking about before we go into
that like we all have a narcissism to us
so the idea that there's somebody who's
a narcissist and we're not is ridiculous
like all of us have some way in which we
are
narcissistic
um the thing about narcissism in general
there's a couple things about narcissism
in us even and even more if somebody has
that personality disorder is that um
narcissism is an inability to feel like
emotions to feel emotions like it this
the best definition I've ever heard of
it I think it was loen who said it and
he said like narcissism is the
incapacity to feel emotions on an
emotion I think that's a really great
level mentally what I see is it's the uh
the part that thinks you're better and
worse than somebody else so people who
are like the narcissists that I've run
into and since I like work with CEOs of
big companies like you you run into them
um what you notice is that they very
much think they're smarter than
everybody or most people but they also
feel like there's something really wrong
and broken with them and so both of
those two things are happening
simultaneously one maybe is more
subconscious one is more
extroverted um and
so so that's that's another thing that's
really important to know about the
narcissist ISM and then the the other
thing that's I think really important to
know about narcissism is that they they
don't feel
contained so they often when I mean
containment I mean that their trip isn't
going to work like if they if their trip
if their thing that they're going to do
I'm going to yell at you and get angry
at you if that works they don't feel
contained if they are more of a
malignant or what I would call a passive
narcissist and so it's passive
aggression um and then and if their
passive
aggression doesn't work then they can
feel
contained and so VI really doesn't have
much of a place with somebody who's like
very far out there on the narcissistic
scale it's like you can do it for your
benefit and for your love and joy but if
you're really really far out there then
boundaries are really the tool that you
want to be able to use and you want to
make sure that you can contain the
person that you're in love with your own
anger enough that their anger doesn't
affect you that you're in love with your
own passive aggression enough that their
passive aggressiveness doesn't affect
you and so that you can actually contain
them because without that containment
they can never feel
safe also it's absolutely 100% totally
wonderful and acceptable to just
separate yourself from a narcissist even
if it's their even if it's your parent
like there's there's nothing that says
that we have to interact with
narcissists to be good people or
something like that it's totally okay to
say that Rel relationship is toxic and
I'm going to limit it whether that's all
the way or just to limit it in such a
way that works so boundaries I think are
absolutely 100% critical yeah I notic
I'm a little bit thrown by the way that
like you you said something about how
like view may not be the tool here but
boundaries are the tool what what would
make those mutually
exclusive they wouldn't be mutually
exclusive but what I notice is that when
people are using View
they drop like using
view in itself is dropping the is
becoming partial so if you're using view
as a way to get somewhere with the
parent then you're not actually in view
because view can't be used particularly
and so throw the tool out drop I see so
what you're saying what you're saying
there is if you're using view as a tool
to get somewhere with your parents yes
it's not a failure of the tool it's that
you're actually using it as a tool which
has pulled you out of view which would
actually be impartial which might be
impartial to the reality that I don't
want to be engaging in the way that
we're engaging right now impartial to
the reality that I want to draw a
boundary yes uh perhaps a loving
boundary perhaps a somewhat messy
boundary yes to take care of myself and
being impartial to the results of that
in the world and in trust that taking
care of myself is taking care of them on
some level yeah I think that the the
issue also is that you know
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder is something that will bring most
people into connection if you are that
way you will most people will be brought
into connection with you and and so you
can start thinking of it as a tool it
that doesn't happen with about 5% of
people if you're if you're
chemicals are off or you you have a
mental illness or there's you know
neurologically potentially atypical
those things may not work to bring into
connection but so using view is a way to
keep yourself in connection that's
fantastic and so great do that but if
you're using it to get them somewhere to
improve the relationship it's not going
to work not only because you're using it
and and being partial but also because
it's like someone who's really
narcissistic your vulnerability is is
something they'll
exploit yeah and I'd also watch here for
the projection too like we could have
described all of this not in the third
person but in a first person describing
that aspect of
ourselves and when when you have a model
that there are 5% of people who are a
certain way and somehow different it can
be really easy and convenient to avoid
your own feeling to to apply that label
to somebody
correct this person's just a narcissist
so yeah that's exactly why started yeah
yeah that's exactly why I started with
the narciss we all have narcissism
inside of it like it we're all on this
narcissistic spectrum and to and to
separate yourself from that is something
else and the other thing is if a
narcissist is triggering you like great
there's all sorts of that you get
to learn about yourself because you're
being triggered and there's the
projections and that's that's like
that's great use of of a narcissist is
to see all that stuff it's also great
use of a narcissist to learn how to draw
boundaries like just because they're not
capable of a human interaction that you
want to have doesn't mean that they hold
no use to you it doesn't mean you can't
love them it doesn't mean you can't be
in connection with them even if you're
separating yourself from them right you
can say oh hey Mom narcissist Mom I
don't want to hang out with you in these
ways anymore I'm only going to really
interact with you in this way or I'm not
going to interact with you at all and
still have a sense of connection for
that for for for
Mom and and that is all about
you like your ability to connect your
ability to stay openhearted towards a
narcissist your ability to contain them
your ability to draw boundaries that's
all great stuff for that you get to
learn so if you just say they're a
narcissist you throw all that baby out
with the bath water yeah yeah and taking
that step back drawing that boundary may
be the first step to really repairing
and developing a deeper connection with
them over time correct giving your
yourself that space to allow that
distance and have it be okay and not
guilt yourself about it or yeah feel
connected and tied into the dynamic
that's and play around them
yeah it's exactly right and yeah with
parent it's it's a particularly
difficult one but it's I mean definitely
definitely
doable MH yeah awesome yeah that was a
good one thank you a whoever you
are so son asked uh can you talk about
being addicted to stress and
dysfunction yeah oh I could talk about
that
[Music]
[Laughter]
good yeah uh it's it's a such a broad
question I don't know where to start
exactly um except for yes I I definitely
see people addicted to stress or
addicted to dysfunction or addicted to
shame or addicted to a lot of the
emotional patterns that we have um I
give you an example of this you know
when my mom and dad were you know in
their 50s they were stressed over the
fact that their son had a green Mohawk
that uh you know that I was not doing
well in school that I was running away
from home and I would say like 40% of
their time was stressed and then I
became successful moved out of the house
and everything and then they were still
stressed 40% of the time but was over
like if the shopping got done or if the
roast was you know overcooked or
whatever the hell it was so abs
absolutely I noticed that
people have a kind of an emotional diet
that they like to keep themselves on and
you can call it addiction I think that's
a fine way to call it um you can also
call it identity I think that's also a
fine thing you know it also for some
people stress and dysfunction is a way
to stay feeling alive you know you get
to see this with teenagers a lot is like
they create this drama because there's
this feeling of aliveness in it it's
like like going and watching a horror
show or going and uh like watching a
like an action film like there's this we
do it so that we get to feel alive like
we get to feel like we're in a drama and
the drama is being resolved and all that
goodness and so I think that's one thing
to talk about is just that yeah it
absolutely exists yeah I want to add as
well that you know the framing it as an
addiction might imply that the whole
pattern is unhealthy and parts of the
pattern may unhealthy but if you look
really deeply under what's what's trying
to occur there might be an Impulse that
is actually a like a deep search for
homeostasis from the body so one of my
experiences with like what we might call
addiction to stress would be uh a lot of
some some of the motivation into extreme
sports not all of it some of it was
always a search for aliveness and
exploration and joy and there was also
some of it that was just
oh There Was Fear in my nervous system
that I wasn't feeling all the time and
when I put myself in a situation where
that fear made sense then all of a
sudden everything was unified and things
made sense so it made sense for me to be
in situations that were scary and that
allowed me to process those feelings
that I wasn't capable of feeling or
wasn't likely to be feeling otherwise I
was suppressing um kind of back to our
earlier conversation about narcissism
being the incapacity to feel also I
think like the fear of feeling the fear
of our
feelings yes uh and I feel like there's
there's a way that that actually help me
process through a lot of that in my
journey and so I could have labeled it
as an addiction and it might just be
there's something deep within me that
wants to be felt that I'm recreating the
situation to feel it and if it's cycling
like an addiction it's probably a sign
that I'm not actually getting it right
it's not necessarily a sign that I
should turn the other way and not not
look there and try to like completely
avoid the pattern it might be that I
need to go deep enough into the pattern
to really feel the thing that the
pattern's actually trying to to be to
create the chance to feel the other the
other thing to say about stress and and
dysfunction is that it's typically just
what we learned as kids
so like we're reproducing the level of
stress and dysfunction that we had in
our house either
by being the thing creating the stress
or dysfunction or marrying or having
friends that create like the stress or
dysfunction so like I can count to like
20 friends that I had that Lit that were
very calm but they lived like a chaotic
childhood and it's like hey what are you
doing for a living now and literally one
of them became like the head of a circus
Road Show just like absolute
crazy chaos stress and dysfunction and
and you know he he played that same role
out so so as we start feeling the
emotions as we start moving through the
trauma oftentimes a lot of
that uh the narcissism Fades but also
the the the addiction or the propensity
for dysfunction and and anxiety and all
that stuff that just starts fading yeah
that's how back to the identity too if
if my identity is I'm the one that is
calm in the face of chaos yeah then I
can't have that identity if I'm not
making sure that there's chaos around me
so I can calm in it exactly totally
totally yeah I love that that's like
that's one of the coolest things about
identity it's like if I'm the calm one
if I'm the smart one around all these
stupid people like you see that with CEO
identities like some of them are
like very much that then like wow you
hire a whole bunch of dumb people like
it's a it's a crazy thing that
disempower them in ways that make them
look dumb exactly yeah exactly you make
choices that don't allow them to be
successful and and so it's just it's a
beautiful thing that identity really
actually doesn't just carve out how we
look at the world but who who's around
us and so that's the other piece to it
which is that that as the identity Slips
Away generally so does the so does the
chaos so does the stress so does the
dysfunction not all of it because
there's some that's just very much tied
to the trauma and to the emotions as
well yeah yeah awesome yeah thank you
Asana H this is one from Vlada on
parenting and emotional fluidity my kids
are not interested in getting anger out
so how do I help them move
it oh
I love your agenda oh my gosh and I
can't yet uh relate I don't yet have
kids but I'm just sure I'm going to be
I'm gonna get it when I
do uh so the F the first one yeah great
you see the agenda which is lovely um
all people want to move get like it's
natural for us to want to move emotions
like it's just it's as natural as
anything if you if nobody's been trained
by Society you know you look at little
kids who aren't trained they they want
their emotions moving like that's just
our nature
so so I don't you know but at the same
time I understand because kids will go
through something like no I don't want
to get
angry um there's two things you can do
the first one is show them what it's
like like just ask them to witness you
as you're moving your aner that one's a
really very useful thing uh this second
thing that is useful is to uh draw
boundaries with them if you tell them
they can't have some they will get angry
and then you're like oh great that's
anger that's fantastic what I noticed
that some parents do I I can't speak for
in this case but what some parents do
it's like I want you to go move your
anger but when you're like angry because
this thing isn't you're not getting this
thing or this thing you don't want that
I want you to stifle so it's like yeah
don't get angry at me now but hey let's
go over here and then go beat the heck
out of something and which is really
telling the kid it's not okay to get
angry so of course they don't want to
get angry um right or it's okay to get
angry but you can't let it transform you
and create a different situation for you
because my way is still the highway
right oh my way or the highway right and
so so I just so with our kids like there
was a big
learning that when they were angry
because of a boundary that was being
drawn because they couldn't do something
that they wanted to do because they
couldn't have something they wanted to
do that was the time to go like yeah
yeah right on I love your anger
that was the time to really be excited
about it uh and drawing boundaries
really helps them get
angry um and then but once they see it
and then they usually want to do it with
you depending on how old they are um you
might get a lot more resistance if
they're teenagers and you've been
managing them their whole life than like
they're probably not going to go for it
with you and so there's other ways to
help them get it and find other
circumstances where anger is part of it
like boxing
or or you know a like a self-defense
course or something like that those are
ways to start that movement but what I
notice is
that even those teenagers they're angry
a lot of the time and you can say oh
cool I see you're angry this is
amazing so I but the bigger part that
you're saying there that is in the
question is that that there's a
management to it and that management
kids resist it no matter what you're
doing with your kid the more you're
trying to manage it the more you resist
it at some age like once the kids get to
about 10 years old then I would be
having a conversation with them that
says something to the effect of hey it's
really this is what I've learned about
getting angry it's really important to
me my job is to teach you this as a
parent and so how do we explore this in
a way that you get to learn and I feel
like I've done a good job and you've
gotten to learn everything from me like
what works for you which is a very
different thing than trying to manage
them into an experience which they will
resist yeah it's modeling it yeah
creating space for it
exactly yeah beautiful thank you for
that question V yeah oh B but by the way
on that one I just remember these times
where like you know my my daughters
would be like I'm not angry I'm not
angry like yeah I really love your anger
I'm not
angry yeah you're not angry stop saying
that yeah yeah
awesome yeah thanks
V uh we have another one from Cheryl
uh Joe often talks about the concept of
feeling the feeling all the way through
as the tool to find Freedom what does
that look like and how do you feel a
feeling all the way
through yeah there's a a tweet that I
recently made that I really liked about
this um yeah or just a a metaphor that
came up for me which is that when you're
really fully feeling an emotion it's
like an earthquake and it reorganizes
your psyche from the ground up you're
not the same person afterwards as you
were before
and so one thing I noticed is something
that stops the feeling from really
moving all the way through is the any
amount of subtle trying to hold myself
together so that I'm still the same
person after I felt the emotion I still
have the same wants goals still have the
same story about who's right and who's
wrong and if I'm holding on to anything
about my world then that's going to slow
down or stagnate the process of an
emotion moving through yeah that's
really true when it moves it'll
restructure the way I see
things yeah that's what makes it such an
efficient beautiful biological process
yeah yeah yeah that's a great thing your
mind is another one just not just in
that capacity of wanting to hold on to
an identity but uh but just trying to
figure it out like there's clearly like
you're you're you
know so many people in our society have
leared when I have a problem I go to my
mind and I will find out the solution
and I will work it out and then but with
emotions it does just the opposite as
soon as you enter your
mind the emotions will will stop moving
H so even the question that's being
asked here in a way
is getting in the way of feeling the
emotions right it is a thought that I am
not feeling an emotion right now it is
not a reality
and so the more you can put your um
attention in your body the more you can
follow your body not try to get
somewhere not judge what's happening in
your body so so somebody like lays down
breathes a little bit and starts feeling
their emotions as soon as they think
this isn't how it's supposed to be I
shouldn't feel this way or this is too
subtle or anything like that then it
immediately constricts the emotional
process whereas if you feel the body and
just follow it and be like oh well
where's this River going to go and I
have no judgment then the whole thing
moves a lot better so that's another way
to feel it all the way
through also like it it happens as it's
supposed to happen so you trying to push
it there is going to slow the whole
thing down and so it's much you know
you're there because you love the
emotion like if you felt an emotion all
the way through you love the emotion at
the end of it and
like in love with the emotion like you
would with your with your kid it's like
this wonderful amazing part of you and
so that's how you know you're there but
the process it can look a lot of
different ways and so it's really just
about following it the there's a
question the question is is kind of like
asking how do I float down the
river how do I fully float down the
river you know and it's like but I don't
know exactly how to answer that question
like or it's maybe more like how does a
log float down the river it's
like that's what it does it's what we do
if we don't get in the way yeah and
there's an interesting kind of double
bind there where like if you have the
thought oh I don't feel anything I'm not
feeling
anything and you trace that thought back
to where it comes from how is it not
fear or there's like an assumption
thoughts come from they require
assumptions to operate we need to have
certain axioms for which to do the logic
with and so what's the axom there the
axium is I should be feeling something
that I'm not and what is under that the
fear of not feeling the fear of not
being good enough and whatever that is
if you look on the other side of the
spine you then have the the strategy of
trying to push any emotion to make it
happen to try to poke to make something
happen and that also is so it might be
that there's sadness and you're like why
am I not feeling sadness I should be
feeling sadness I'm going to try to feel
my sadness and in reality what really
wants to be felt first is the fear of
not feeling your sadness right yeah or
the shame of not feeling the sadness
followed by the fear followed by the
sadness itself yeah right or it might be
the anger often times with sadness for
some people it's the anger that I can't
feel it but what I like about what
you're saying is it is a really cool
hack is every thought you have about
every thought that you have about not
being able to feel an emotion all the
way through is an emotion that you get
to feel that's like such a beautiful
pointer every thought yeah and sometimes
the river goes around the bend then
through a little gentle class two Rapids
then to the right and over a waterfall
and then class four exactly and then
into the ocean you know right exactly
why isn't it all waterfalls where's it
going
next exactly exactly
yeah it's really sweet that thought
process I really dig that thought
process oh I should be able to
cry is
shame and so feel the
shame uh you know oh my gosh if I cry
then I'm never going to stop crying oh
that's fear so I feel the fear yeah yeah
and another hack is fake
it if you're just really stuck in your
head you can just use the old crowbar
which I had to use which is just fake
the emotion for a while until it finally
flows yeah yeah I think there's a really
important subtlety subtlety there as
well because there's I think there's a
fine line between just fullon Faking It
where on some level you know you're
faking it and like you're trying to get
yourself somewhere and so the resistance
happens and then you get nowhere but
there's something there's a subtle fine
line where if you're Faking It with
sincerity there's an invitation like hey
I'm if there's hey in their muscles if
there's a tension that's kind of like
this one that wants to be felt let's try
feeling like you're welcome to feel it
if if uh if there's tears that want to
come like I'm going to get the process
started and if I'm if I'm striking a
cord you can the body can follow it yeah
and you kind of hit a resonance and it
starts to move yeah the the way I
describe it that I think works the best
is pretend you're an actor and your job
is to give the most convincing
performance of sadness but you're just
an
actor and what it does is it does the
two things that we just that you just
talked about the first thing that it
does is it it creates a sincerity but
the second thing it does is it allows
you not to believe any of your thoughts
because you're an actor yeah and so it's
like you're outside observing it so it's
your identity is not
involved right because your identity is
the one observing the ACT
and you are have the sincerity or it's
not a good
performance and you don't believe any of
the the thing because it's just a story
and though if you're going to fake it
that's the most effective way I've seen
to fake it is pretend you're an
actor playing the part of you right now
and your job is to give the most sincere
performance best performance of anger
best performance of sadness yeah that's
that's the old crowbar yeah
the pointer of being an actor acting as
you also is just like a great way to
drop into the body because okay how am I
going to act like me the first place I'm
going to go at least maybe that's me but
the first place I'd go is into my body
to be like what ises what does my body
want to do if it's that yeah you know if
I'm if I'm feeling that and then I'm
most likely to actually take the shape
that any that there that is actually
what my body wants to take to move that
emotion yeah so it's tapping the the
body's wisdom there without overthinking
it right yeah which would not t which
would be the opposite of tapping the B
body yeah exactly tapping the body
wisdom rather than overthinking it yeah
yeah this is from
Asana uh what does it mean to
passionately hold a perspective while
being grounded curious of others
perspectives
especially when you they spur feelings
of anger and frustration what if I don't
want to be in view all the time
[Music]
yeah yeah so we're not making it
wouldn't be in view if you're forcing
yourself to be in view
right that's that's a better answer than
I have I the first thing I'd say is like
let let's not like I don't want to view
doesn't view in itself just if you're in
view you can't see morality around view
meaning
like like let's not make this like the
golden rule or something that you have
to do or you know right or wrong or good
or bad
or view is just a place you get to go if
you want to go there like it's quite
lovely and it's and it is connected and
so I think that's the first thing is no
you don't ever have to be in view and
and I hope that during our course we
never tell anybody that you have to do
this I think people I know a lot of
people walk away with it and um but like
it doesn't have to be it's like not
a it's not an imperative
uh it's hey experiment with this see how
enjoyable this is see how it is to live
in this see how much you want to live in
this it's great um and pretty soon
you'll just learn that like oh this is
like a place that gets a lot of really
good results in life and I like it and
it's enjoyable and it doesn't always get
me what I want but eventually it gets me
something better than what I want and
all that stuff
um as far as what if you have a
perspective yeah great have a
perspective I
think there's there's a there's a kind
of an interesting point of view here
which
is you can hold a perspective and not
think you're
right and it's an interesting nuance and
you can hold a perspective and think
you're right that's fine that and what i
notic is holding a perspective and
saying oh right I this is a perspective
that's dear to me and I can't believe
that it's right
I just know it's the one that's right
for
me
is is a there's a lot of freedom in that
both freedom of action and freedom of
not taking things personally and so the
the implied part of the question that
Asana asks here is especially when they
spur feelings of anger and frustration
meaning
that I have a perspective that is
creating other people's anger or their
perspective is creating my anger I would
say either one of those two things it's
like yeah then go feel the anger like or
go feel the fear that somebody's angry
at you or the feeling of aloneness or
the feeling of I'm different and
isolated or whatever the emotions are
that are there it's like fantastic to
have all that experience as
well yeah something that comes up for me
just pondering this is
that this is this is my perspective that
may be true may be not true but I sort
of perceive view to be a natural state
for us prior to things getting wired
together and to patterns and ways that
we learn to get love underneath all of
it is what what view points to the
Natural State and you can't adopt your
natural state or push yourself into your
natural state you can explore it right
and the way you explore it is seeing
what comes up in the way that seems to
be in the way the stories that would
have you say oh I'm getting angry
therefore that's is view well is it like
what is it the story or the
anger right that is actually in the way
of recognizing that Natural State yeah
yeah that's a lovely way to put it yeah
there was one more question that I
really liked in here that I wanted to
um there's a lot of really good ones I
want to do this again Scott says or asks
the common pitfalls of self
transformation through emotional
fluidity needing needing an emotion to
move thinking once it moves then you'll
be lovable using tactics as a strategy
to move things
Etc
so it feels like all of those are traps
about thinking about your emotional
experience so it's like those are all
traps of thought when related to like
emotional fluidity these are the thought
patterns that get me all fakata around
emotional fluidity emotional fluidity
has its own fattiness which
is what the like the little pitfalls or
Eddies along the way one of them that I
find is that um people start believing
their
emotions um that the emotions become
very convincing like the thoughts did
for a while and then the thoughts get
rejected no thoughts are bads emotions
are good and it's really the integration
of the two that's important and neither
of them are bad or good and both of them
have value and it's being able to have
them both online together that actually
creates the most Clarity so that's I
think one of the things that gets in
like one of the common pitfalls in
emotional
fluidity there's other ones we have the
the episode about the stages of emotion
um and emotional fluidity and a lot of
those have a trap to them like the one I
fell into of I'm talking about my
emotions and at one point that helped me
feel them and at some point that stopped
helping me feel them so that there are
ways in
which like the tools that get us to
emotional fluidity H have to be left
behind and it can it just turns into an
experience of emotions moving through
your
body but so holding on to those tools is
trap things a goddess
there uh that's another trap that I
think people get into with them as far
as the ones that were mentioned here
about thinking that you need to do it to
be lovable your emotions wouldn't fall
for that in a hot second neither would
your body that's a that's a mind thing
that would that would convince you of
something like that and emotional
fluidity would and in fact probably
require you to mourn the fact that you
thought you needed to do something to be
so
yeah something interesting about what
you said about like one of the pitfalls
being that people will start believing
their emotions it's yeah like it seems
to me that that's what that what would
happen is actually that they believe an
interpretation of their emotions like
I'm angry so that means something's
somebody did something wrong or
I'm no literally that I also mean I also
mean I'm angry means I'm angry like I
believe that I'm angry m and that it's
not something else that there's sadness
underneath it or that's one or that the
anger like it's I that I'm angry that
it's not just something that's moving
through me they'll Define themselves by
their emotions right the way they would
Define themselves by the thoughts yeah
so it seems like we have some
independent things going on here that
like to the extent that you you can see
through your
identity and you feel your emotions
you're less likely to make the emotions
about you
so if you if you do the work of opening
up your access to your emotions without
doing the work of seeing through
Identity or seeing through thoughts you
might sometimes find yourself in that
snare yeah yes and feeling your emotions
all the way through also loosens the
identity right like as you start
noticing like this is just something
that moves through you and it has
nothing to do with you it's not personal
that it's not you getting angry it's
just that's what's happening then that
also loosen up the identity quite a bit
like often times when people have a big
emotional expression their mind will be
very quiet you see this in ground
Breakers all the time their mind will be
very quiet like their their identity
will be very like gone you know yeah for
a little bit and so it it works both
ways it's it but what I notice is that
people can identify with their emotions
yeah for slows down the that's the the
interesting Catch 22 here is the more
you identify with your emotions the the
less the emotion gets to fully move and
restructure your identity and allow it
to dissolve and fall away yeah and that
also makes it a virtuous cycle the more
the more of this work you do the more
the the the faster the rate of
transformation yeah in that way
absolutely that's right yeah so yeah I
that answers the question I don't I
don't know if there's anything else to
add yeah that's it that's what I've got
awesome yeah cool well thanks everybody
for the questions uh keep sending them
if you notice in Spotify there is when
you finish this episode you'll likely be
asked I don't haven't seen the interface
but you'll be
asked what kind of topic should we ask
should we do for our next episode feel
free to just drop something in there or
hit us on Twitter X
LinkedIn email any of the any of the
socials or the platforms we love to hear
from you and love to do more of these
These are fun yeah awesome thank you
very much Brett thanks everybody for the
great questions yeah thank you Joe all
right take care bye